=====================================================================
EPA SWMM 5.1 RELEASE NOTES
=====================================================================

This file contains information concerning Version 5.1 of the EPA
Storm Water Management Model (SWMM). A complete Users Manual as
well as full source code and other updates are available at
www.epa.gov/water-research/storm-water-management-model-swmm.

=====================================================================
INSTALLATION

To install EPA SWMM 5.1 run the setup program swmm51xxx_setup.exe
where xxx contains the current build number. It will place the
following files into the application folder you designate:
  epaswmm5.exe  -- the Windows user interface for SWMM
  epaswmm5.chm  -- the SWMM 5 help file
  swmm5.dll     -- the SWMM 5 computational engine
  swmm5.exe     -- the command line version of SWMM 5
  vcomp100.dll  -- OpenMP multi-threading library
  tutorial.chm  -- an online tutorial for SWMM 5
  notes.txt     -- this file

The setup program will also create a Start Menu group whose default
name is EPA SWMM 5.1. From this menu group select the item named
EPA SWMM 5.1 to launch the program.

=====================================================================
EXAMPLE DATA SETS

Several example data sets have been included with  this package. They
are placed in a sub-folder named EPA SWMM Projects\Examples in your
My Documents folder. Each example consists of a .INP file that holds
the model data and a .TXT file with suggestions on running it.

* EXAMPLE1.INP models runoff quantity and quality from a small
  watershed and its routing through a network of storm sewers.
  It can be run in either single event mode or in continuous
  mode using the companion rainfall file sta310301.dat.

* EXAMPLE2.INP is Example 1 of the 1988 EXTRAN Users Manual. It
  illustrates how SWMM 5 can graphically compare its results to
  observed data stored in a text file (extran1.dat).

* EXAMPLE3.INP illustrates the use of the rule-based controls
  feature in SWMM 5 for simulating real-time control.

* EXAMPLE4.INP shows how the LID controls feature in SWMM 5 was
  used to reduce runoff produced froma 29 acre mixed development
  site.

* EXAMPLE5.INP shows how to setup a simple groundwater model in
  SWMM.

* EXAMPLE6.INP models a culvert with roadway overtopping and
  upstream storage using the FHWA HDS-5 methodology.

=====================================================================
TERMS OF USE

EPA SWMM 5 is public domain software that may be freely copied and
distributed.

=====================================================================
DISCLAIMER

The software product is provided on an "as-is" basis. US EPA makes no
representations or warranties of any kind and expressly disclaim all
other warranties express or implied, including, without limitation,
warranties of merchantability or fitness for a particular purpose.
Although care has been used in preparing the software product, US EPA
disclaim all liability for its accuracy or completeness, and the user
shall be solely responsible for the selection, use,efficiency and
suitability of the software product. Any person who uses this product
does so at his sole risk and without liability to US EPA. US EPA shall
have no liability to users for the infringement of proprietary rights
by the software product or any portion thereof.
